Now, let me show you a trick that will make a line go closer to a point.
Let's say we have our linear equation for example,
3x1 + 4x2 -10.
And that linear equation gives us a line which is
the points where the equation is zero and two regions.
The positive region drawn in blue where 3x1 + 4x2 - 10 is positive,
and the negative region drawn in red with 3x1 + 4x2 - 10 is negative.
So here we have our lonely misclassified point, the 0.4,
5 which is a red point in the blue area,
and the point has to come closer.
So how do we get that point to come closer to the line?
Well, the idea is we're going to take the four and five and use them to modify
the equation of the line in order to get the line to move closer to the point.
So here are parameters of the line 3,
4 and -10 and the coordinates of the point are 4 and 5,
and let's also add a one here for the bias unit.
So what we'll do is subtract these numbers from the parameters of the line to get 3 - 4,
4 - 5, and -10 -1.
The new line will have parameters -1, -1, -11.
And this line will move drastically towards the point,
possibly even going over it and placing it in the correct area.
Now, since we have a lot of other points,
we don't want to make any drastic moves since we may
accidentally misclassify all our other points.
We want the line to make a small move towards that point and for this,
we need to take small steps towards the point.
So here's where we introduce the learning rate,
the learning rate is a small number for example,
0.1 and what we'll do is instead of subtracting four,
five and one from the coordinates of the line,
we'll multiply these numbers by 0.1 and then subtract them from the equation of the line.
This means we'll be subtracting 0.4,
0.5, and 0.1 from the equation of the line.
Obtaining a new equation of 2.6x1 + 3.5x 2 - 10.1 = 0.
This new line will actually move closer to the point.
In the same way, if we have a blue point in the red area, for example,
the point 1,1 is a positively labeled point in the negative area.
This point is also misclassified and it says, come closer.
So what do we do here is the same thing,
except now instead of subtracting
the coordinates to the parameters of the line, we add them.
Again, we multiply by the learning rate in order to make small steps.
So here we take the coordinates of the point 1,1 and put
an extra one for the constant term and now,
we multiply them by the learning rates 0.1.
Now, we add them to the parameters of the line and we get a new line with
equation 3.1x1 + 4.1x2 - 9.9.
And magic, this line is closer to the point.
So that's the trick we're going to use repeatedly for the Perceptron Algorithm.